Puppeteer/Playwright course (fixed branch name) (#357)
apify/apify-docs: content/academy/puppeteer_playwright/page/waiting.md

import puppeteer from 'puppeteer';

const browser = await puppeteer.launch({ headless: false });

const page = await browser.newPage();
await page.goto('https://google.com/');

await page.click('button + button:nth-child(2)');

await page.type('input[title="Search"]', 'hello world');
await page.keyboard.press('Enter');

// Wait for the element to be present on the page prior to clicking it
await page.waitForSelector('.g a');
await page.click('.g a');

await page.waitForTimeout(10000)
await browser.close();
```

Now, we won't see the error message anymore, and the first result will be successfully clicked by Puppeteer.

## [](#waiting-for-navigation) Navigation

If we remember properly, after clicking the first result, we want to console log the title of the result's page and save a screenshot into the filesystem. In order to grab a solid screenshot of the loaded page though, we should **wait for navigation**  before snapping the image. This can be done with `page.waitForNavigation()`.

Naively, you might immediately think that this is the way we should wait for navigation after clicking the first result:

```JavaScript
await page.click('.g a');
await page.waitForNavigation();
```

> Though in theory this is correct, it can result in a race condition in which the page navigates quickly before the `page.waitForNavigation()` function is ever run, which means that once it is finally called, it will hang and wait forever for the `domcontentloaded` event to fire even though it already fired. To solve this, we can stick the waiting logic and the clicking logic into a `Promise.all()` call (placing `page.waitForNavigation()` first).

Reviewer: The default is load.

```suggestion
Though in theory this is correct, it can result in a race condition in which the page navigates quickly before the `page.waitForNavigation()` function is ever run, which means that once it is finally called, it will hang and wait forever for the [`load` event](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/load_event) to fire even though it already fired. To solve this, we can stick the waiting logic and the clicking logic into a `Promise.all()` call (placing `page.waitForNavigation()` first).
```

```JavaScript
await Promise.all([page.waitForNavigation(), page.click('.g a')]);
```

This implementation will do the following:

1. Begin waiting for the page to navigate without blocking the `page.click()` function
2. Click the element, firing off a navigating event
3. Resolve once the page has navigated, allowing further code to run

> 

Reviewer: I checked again and there's [page.waitForLoadState](https://playwright.dev/docs/api/class-frame#frame-wait-for-load-state) in Playwright. 

I would keep the paragraphs above that mention waitForNavigation, because it works the same in both Puppeteer and Playwright. Then I would add a paragraph and a short (not full runnable) example here that for Playwright we recommend using waitForLoadState because you don't have to use that ugly promise.all because the function will correctly resolve even if the event has already fired.

## [](#current-code) Our code so far

Here's what our project's code looks like so far:

```marked-tabs
<marked-tab header="Playwright" lang="javascript">
import puppeteer from 'puppeteer';
import * as fs from 'fs/promises';

const browser = await puppeteer.launch({ headless: false });

// Create a page and visit Google
const page = await browser.newPage();
await page.goto('https://google.com');

// Agree to the cookies policy
await page.click('button + button:nth-child(2)');

// Type the query and visit the results page
await page.type('input[title="Search"]', 'hello world');
await page.keyboard.press('Enter');

// Wait for the first result to appear on the page,
// then click on it
await page.waitForSelector('.g a');

> await Promise.all([page.waitForNavigation(), page.click('.g a')]);

Reviewer: Would replace with waitForLoadState. Yeah, I know, sorry that I didn't mention this earlier, but I didn't know about this function before. But it's better, so let's use it.
